I have a teacher and friend who is a dad. I bet that most of you know a dad. And as a father does, this Dad loves his kids very much. This Dad, though, has a son with Angelman's. Leading up to International Angelman's Day, he and his family are trying to raise awareness about Angelman's- not money, not time, but just awareness. So all I ask for is one minute to read the story he wrote below, from the perspective of his younger son. So give me one minute now, and I promise I'll give you your minute anytime you need it back.

<!--more-->

<h2>My Brother is Awake Now</h2>
My brother is awake now. It’s three in the morning and four-year-olds sleep at three in the morning – except my brother; which means that most people are sleeping except my brother, and my parents – and sometimes me. Because “now” isn’t some random night when some little boy has had a nightmare or has caught some illness, “now” is any night of any week in any month from the day my brother came home from the hospital through today and onward - to days unknown. His body doesn’t produce the sleep stuff, melatonin, the way everyone else’s does. And so, it’s three in the morning and my brother is wide awake. 

My parents aren’t. They haven’t been “wide” awake for four years. They live in that place between waking and sleep in a routine choreographed and rehearsed in worry, duty and exhaustion. Like any parents of a newborn will tell you, sleep and rest and sanity are like dreams – except my brother is not new, and the dreams have become distant and unlikely. They shuffle and spin from doctor to doctor, from therapist to therapist, and from hospital to hospital in search of answers, questions, and information. The story of my brother that used to quiver their voices and water their eyes has become so over-told to neurologists, ophthalmologists, orthopedists, physiologists, pediatricians and doctors-on-call that the delivery is robotic; it takes a lot more to break their hearts now. 

Now, the heartbreak comes in little snippets of sequestered tears shoved behind closed doors. Hope is what you have when fear is where you live – my parents have nothing but hope. They are tireless in pursuit of betterment, education, therapy, mobility, communication and a cure; all of which are struggles, some of which are impossible. 

My family is strong, but not infallible. My mother contends with my brother for numbers of doctors – and prescriptions. She leads the charge in a fight that cannot be won, but can so easily be lost. And every time my brother has a seizure or hurts himself her soul aches to fix it – but she can’t. Nothing can. Not money, not doctors, and not prayers. 

My brother is tenacious. For six weeks his brain seized constantly – he was confused, disoriented, tremulous and scared. He also re-taught himself how to crawl every morning, dutifully re-learned how to play with his favourite toys, and found time to reacquaint himself with his sister. He would fall flat on his face, convulse on the floor and still never forget to smile when he saw me. He forgot how to crawl, how to babble, how to eat and how to swallow – but he never forgot how to smile when he saw me. He has blood tests and leg-braces and eye-operations and excruciating cramps – but he has never forgotten how to smile when he sees me. 

At first it was here and there. A well-intentioned woman in a grocery-store line asking his name and deciding he was shy because he would not respond – my parents too aware of how crushing it would be to tell her he could not speak, and too afraid of the follow-up questions. Next it was busy-bodies in the park watching him walk as he held hands when he should have been walking on his own and writing it off to “late-blooming”; but you could see the moment at which they understood and then felt shame for saying anything at all. Now it’s a nosey dog-walker who diagnoses my brother from a bench announcing that their nephew/niece/cousin/brother has autism, cerebral palsy, or something – but never the same thing. And they go on to tell us like it is and what to do and how to help and where to go and it requires an unyielding understanding of good intentions for my parents not to either sob uncontrollably or assault them – but my family is strong.
When Mom or Dad closes the door to our house everything is safe and we are strong. Anything that happens in the house we can handle. We are protected by the walls, our resolve and our dog – most of all, at the centre, we are protected by the most courageous four-year-old boy there is. When the door is opened is when the hearts break. An open door should mean freedom and experience, but all too often it reveals judgment, inadequacy, pity and apology: “I’m sorry, he doesn’t know. I’m sorry, he doesn’t speak. I’m sorry, he doesn’t walk. I’m sorry I can’t fix this, little buddy.” Sometimes the apologies are too much and they turn into frustration that pushes against even those who are trying. Mom and Dad have lost friends and family along the way to misunderstanding and exhausted anger that should’ve been hugs - because that’s what they needed. That’s what I give them.

My mother’s heart breaks once more every time her mother says how sorry she feels that our family has to go through all this, and it breaks again when all her father ever wanted to do was to teach his grandson how to drive a tractor and pick a guitar but in his eyes she sees that he knows it will never be. My father’s heart sinks when he remembers his own childhood and he wants so bad to give that all to my brother but can’t. And it sinks a little more when he remembers that he can’t make it all better, either. 

But then Mom comes home from a doctor’s appointment or therapy; but then Dad comes home from work or from a meeting; but then I wake up from a nap or come back from a trip – and there’s my brother, smiling when he sees us. 

All of the pain, all of the frustration, all of the confusion, shame, exhaustion and all of the heartbreak flies right out the window when we see my brother’s smile, and hear him laugh, and watch him bounce off down the hallway on his way to make trouble for whatever unfortunate toy he’s going to chew up next. 

It’s easy to feel sorry for all the great things my brother can’t do, and easy to feel bad for all the horrible things that seem to happen to him – it’s easy to catch myself feeling cheated for all the conversations I will never have with him and easy to be sad for all the milestones I am going to hit alone. My brother is joy personified, and nothing is easy for him. He earns every bit of his happiness, and I would be a fool not to learn everything I can from his example. 

My brother is awake now. He probably just had a seizure and is scared and confused. He probably is thirsty, but he can’t remember how to drink. He probably hasn’t slept much and he’s probably lonely. He might even be a little sad – we just can’t be sure. But there is one thing I know for sure – when we open his door to bring him his water and give him a hug and my parents silently wonder what the future of our family is in their sleep-deprived daze at three in the morning (even at three in the morning!) my brother will be smiling when he sees us.

My brother, Edison, has a rare genetic disorder called Angelman Syndrome. Please visit the Canadian Angelman Syndrome Society (<a href="http://www.angelmancanada.org/">www.angelmancanada.org</a>) or the Angelman Syndrome Foundation (www.angelman.org) if you’d like to learn more.

All of the pain, all of the frustration, all of the confusion, shame, exhaustion and all of the heartbreak flies right out the window when we see my brother’s smile, and hear him laugh, and watch him bounce off down the hallway on his way to make trouble for whatever unfortunate toy he’s going to chew up next. 

It’s easy to feel sorry for all the great things my brother can’t do, and easy to feel bad for all the horrible things that seem to happen to him – it’s easy to catch myself feeling cheated for all the conversations I will never have with him and easy to be sad for all the milestones I am going to hit alone. My brother is joy personified, and nothing is easy for him. He earns every bit of his happiness, and I would be a fool not to learn everything I can from his example. 

My brother is awake now. He probably just had a seizure and is scared and confused. He probably is thirsty, but he can’t remember how to drink. He probably hasn’t slept much and he’s probably lonely. He might even be a little sad – we just can’t be sure. But there is one thing I know for sure – when we open his door to bring him his water and give him a hug and my parents silently wonder what the future of our family is in their sleep-deprived daze at three in the morning (even at three in the morning!) my brother will be smiling when he sees us.

My brother, Edison, has a rare genetic disorder called Angelman Syndrome. Please visit the Canadian Angelman Syndrome Society (<a href="http://www.angelmancanada.org/">www.angelmancanada.org</a>) or the Angelman Syndrome Foundation (<a href="http://www.angelman.org/">www.angelman.org</a>) if you’d like to learn more.

<hr/>

<em>The contents of this post are not the soul creation of Ian Spence and are used with permission</em>